README.md, before:

![banner.jpg](images/banner.jpg)

# Awesome Utrecht University

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

A curated list of awesome research code, software, manuals, and more on Git, developed by **Utrecht University** researchers, students, and employees. The list can be your starting point to find interesting UU projects, and get inpired and learn from other projects. Is your project also "awesome"? Add it to this list (see [Contributing](#contributing)).

- [Awesome Utrecht University](#awesome-utrecht-university)
  - [Research projects with code](#research-projects-with-code)
  - [Research software](#research-software)
  - [Research Data](#research-data)
  - [Research project management](#research-project-management)
  - [Education and workshops](#education-and-workshops)
  - [Collaboration Groups](#collaboration-groups)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Contact](#contact)

---

## Research projects with code

*Research projects with supplementing code or data stored on online Git repositories.*

- [ContrastiveExplanation](https://github.com/MarcelRobeer/ContrastiveExplanation) - Contrastive Explanation (Foil Trees), developed at TNO/Utrecht University
- [GeoNewsMiner](https://github.com/lorellav/GeoNewsMiner) The GeoNewsMiner (GNM): An interactive spatial humanities tool to visualize geographical references in historical newspapers
- [PuReGoMe](https://github.com/puregome/notebooks) - Notebooks of the PuReGoMe Project of the Netherlands eScience Center and Utrecht University.
- [PCR-GLOBWB_model](https://github.com/UU-Hydro/PCR-GLOBWB_model) - PCR-GLOBWB (PCRaster Global Water Balance) is a large-scale hydrological model intended for global to regional studies and developed at the Department of Physical Geography.
- [Saliency-Tubes-Visual-Explanations-for-Spatio-Temporal-Convolutions](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/Saliency-Tubes-Visual-Explanations-for-Spatio-Temporal-Convolutions) - Implementation of Saliency Tubes for 3D Convolutions in Pytoch and Keras to localise the focus spatio-temporal regions of 3D CNNs.
- [SoftPool](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/SoftPool) - Code for approximated exponential maximum pooling. 
- [Squeeze-and-Recursion-Temporal-Gates](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/Squeeze-and-Recursion-Temporal-Gates) - Code for : [Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2020] "Learn to cycle: Time-consistent feature discovery for action recognition" and [arXiv] "Right on Time: Multi-Temporal Convolutions for Human Action Recognition in Videos".

## Research software

*Software developed by researchers and employees of Utrecht University. The software in this list is installable and can be used in new or existing research projects or courses.*

- [asreview](https://github.com/asreview/asreview) - Active learning for systematic reviews
- [bain](https://github.com/cjvanlissa/bain) - Bayes Factors for Informative Hypotheses
- [mice](https://github.com/amices/mice) - Multivariate Imputation by Chained Equations
- [parcels](https://github.com/OceanParcels/parcels) - Main code for Parcels (Probably A Really Computationally Efficient Lagrangian Simulator)
- [pcraster](https://github.com/pcraster/pcraster) - Environmental modeling software
- [pdb-tools](https://github.com/haddocking/pdb-tools) - A dependency-free cross-platform swiss army knife for PDB files.
- [recordlinkage](https://github.com/J535D165/recordlinkage) - A toolkit for record linkage and duplicate detection in Python

## Research Data

*Research data stored in git repositories.*

- [childdevdata](https://github.com/D-score/childdevdata) - R package with *Child Development Data* from ten studies, containing 1,116,061 assessments made on 10,831 unique children during 28,465 visits, covering 21 different instruments.
- [CoronaWatchNL](https://github.com/J535D165/CoronaWatchNL) - Numbers concerning COVID-19 disease cases in The Netherlands by RIVM, LCPS, NICE, ECML, and Rijksoverheid.

## Research project management

*Tools for research project management, data management, and software management.*

- [worcs](https://github.com/cjvanlissa/worcs) - Rstudio project template and convenience functions for the Workflow for Open Reproducible Code in Science (WORCS)

## Education and workshops

*Open teaching materials are guidelines, tutorials or any other educational material. Where to discover further resources relevant for UU research like books, podcasts, additional websites and newsletters.*

- [Textbook on Quantitative Methods and Statistics](https://github.com/hugoquene/QMS-EN) Textbook on Quantitative Methods and Statistics aimed at humanities researchers and students [(English version, EN)](https://hugoquene.github.io/QMS-EN/) [(Dutch version, NL)](https://hugoquene.github.io/KMS-NL/)
- [workshop-introduction-to-R-and-data](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/workshop-introduction-to-R-and-data) - Material for the workshop 'Introduction to R & data' by [RDM Support](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/research-data-management)

## Collaboration Groups

*Collaboration Groups are organizations with many involved parties.*

- [CLARIAH](https://github.com/CLARIAH) - CLARIAH offers humanities scholars a Common Lab providing access to large collections of digital resources and innovative tools for research
- [stan](https://github.com/stan-dev) - Stan is a state-of-the-art platform for statistical modeling and high-performance statistical computation. Thousands of users rely on Stan for statistical modeling, data analysis, and prediction in the social, biological, and physical sciences, engineering, and business.

# Contributing

Your contributions are always welcome! Please take a look at the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/awesome-UU/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) first. We are also looking for researchers that are interested in helping to maintain this list. Please reach out if you would like to assist!

# Contact

In order to promote open science, Utrecht University has launched the Open Science Programme. To add focus to specific topics, there are four tracks within the Programme: Open access, FAIR data and software, Public engagement, Recognition and rewards. This repository was created by efforts of the track of FAIR data and software.

If you have any question about this opinionated list, do not hesitate to contact me [Keven Quach](mailto:k.quach@uu.nl?subject=[GitHub]%20Awesome-UU) or [Jonathan de Bruin](j.debruin1@uu.nl) via mail or open an issue on GitHub.

Inspired by [awesome-python](https://github.com/vinta/awesome-python).

Commit message:

include more info about the list

README.md, after:

![banner.jpg](images/banner.jpg)

# Awesome Utrecht University

[![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

## About

A curated list of awesome research code, software, manuals, and more on Git, developed by **Utrecht University** researchers, students, and employees. The list can be your starting point to find interesting UU projects, and get inpired and learn from other projects. Is your project also "awesome"? Add it to this list (see [Contributing](#contributing)).

The initial collection of projects was made based on the collected repositories from the [SWORDS-UU](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/SWORDS-UU) project. Repositories were considered when they have

- a license
- 25 stars or fulfill 4/5 FAIR criteria.

The purpose of this repository is to have a selection of projects that scored high on openness criteria and stars in order to showcase good examples of open practices. In the context of this, *awesome* refers to projects that showcase the [FAIR](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/open-science/tracks/fair-data-and-software) spirit. This is for example shown in repositories that have a license and a readme file with reuse instructions.

In order to promote open science, Utrecht University has launched the Open Science Programme. To add focus to specific topics, there are four tracks within the Programme: Open access, FAIR data and software, Public engagement, Recognition and rewards. This repository was created by efforts of the track of FAIR data and software.

- [Awesome Utrecht University](#awesome-utrecht-university)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Research projects with code](#research-projects-with-code)
  - [Research software](#research-software)
  - [Research Data](#research-data)
  - [Research project management](#research-project-management)
  - [Education and workshops](#education-and-workshops)
  - [Collaboration Groups](#collaboration-groups)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Contact](#contact)

---

## Research projects with code

*Research projects with supplementing code or data stored on online Git repositories.*

- [ContrastiveExplanation](https://github.com/MarcelRobeer/ContrastiveExplanation) - Contrastive Explanation (Foil Trees), developed at TNO/Utrecht University
- [GeoNewsMiner](https://github.com/lorellav/GeoNewsMiner) The GeoNewsMiner (GNM): An interactive spatial humanities tool to visualize geographical references in historical newspapers
- [PuReGoMe](https://github.com/puregome/notebooks) - Notebooks of the PuReGoMe Project of the Netherlands eScience Center and Utrecht University.
- [PCR-GLOBWB_model](https://github.com/UU-Hydro/PCR-GLOBWB_model) - PCR-GLOBWB (PCRaster Global Water Balance) is a large-scale hydrological model intended for global to regional studies and developed at the Department of Physical Geography.
- [Saliency-Tubes-Visual-Explanations-for-Spatio-Temporal-Convolutions](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/Saliency-Tubes-Visual-Explanations-for-Spatio-Temporal-Convolutions) - Implementation of Saliency Tubes for 3D Convolutions in Pytoch and Keras to localise the focus spatio-temporal regions of 3D CNNs.
- [SoftPool](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/SoftPool) - Code for approximated exponential maximum pooling. 
- [Squeeze-and-Recursion-Temporal-Gates](https://github.com/alexandrosstergiou/Squeeze-and-Recursion-Temporal-Gates) - Code for : [Pattern Recognit. Lett. 2020] "Learn to cycle: Time-consistent feature discovery for action recognition" and [arXiv] "Right on Time: Multi-Temporal Convolutions for Human Action Recognition in Videos".

## Research software

*Software developed by researchers and employees of Utrecht University. The software in this list is installable and can be used in new or existing research projects or courses.*

- [asreview](https://github.com/asreview/asreview) - Active learning for systematic reviews
- [bain](https://github.com/cjvanlissa/bain) - Bayes Factors for Informative Hypotheses
- [mice](https://github.com/amices/mice) - Multivariate Imputation by Chained Equations
- [parcels](https://github.com/OceanParcels/parcels) - Main code for Parcels (Probably A Really Computationally Efficient Lagrangian Simulator)
- [pcraster](https://github.com/pcraster/pcraster) - Environmental modeling software
- [pdb-tools](https://github.com/haddocking/pdb-tools) - A dependency-free cross-platform swiss army knife for PDB files.
- [recordlinkage](https://github.com/J535D165/recordlinkage) - A toolkit for record linkage and duplicate detection in Python

## Research Data

*Research data stored in git repositories.*

- [childdevdata](https://github.com/D-score/childdevdata) - R package with *Child Development Data* from ten studies, containing 1,116,061 assessments made on 10,831 unique children during 28,465 visits, covering 21 different instruments.
- [CoronaWatchNL](https://github.com/J535D165/CoronaWatchNL) - Numbers concerning COVID-19 disease cases in The Netherlands by RIVM, LCPS, NICE, ECML, and Rijksoverheid.

## Research project management

*Tools for research project management, data management, and software management.*

- [worcs](https://github.com/cjvanlissa/worcs) - Rstudio project template and convenience functions for the Workflow for Open Reproducible Code in Science (WORCS)

## Education and workshops

*Open teaching materials are guidelines, tutorials or any other educational material. Where to discover further resources relevant for UU research like books, podcasts, additional websites and newsletters.*

- [Textbook on Quantitative Methods and Statistics](https://github.com/hugoquene/QMS-EN) Textbook on Quantitative Methods and Statistics aimed at humanities researchers and students [(English version, EN)](https://hugoquene.github.io/QMS-EN/) [(Dutch version, NL)](https://hugoquene.github.io/KMS-NL/)
- [workshop-introduction-to-R-and-data](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/workshop-introduction-to-R-and-data) - Material for the workshop 'Introduction to R & data' by [RDM Support](https://www.uu.nl/en/research/research-data-management)

## Collaboration Groups

*Collaboration Groups are organizations with many involved parties.*

- [CLARIAH](https://github.com/CLARIAH) - CLARIAH offers humanities scholars a Common Lab providing access to large collections of digital resources and innovative tools for research
- [stan](https://github.com/stan-dev) - Stan is a state-of-the-art platform for statistical modeling and high-performance statistical computation. Thousands of users rely on Stan for statistical modeling, data analysis, and prediction in the social, biological, and physical sciences, engineering, and business.

# Contributing

Your contributions are always welcome! Please take a look at the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/awesome-UU/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) first. We are also looking for researchers that are interested in helping to maintain this list. Please reach out if you would like to assist!

# Contact

If you have any question about this opinionated list, do not hesitate to contact me [Keven Quach](mailto:k.quach@uu.nl?subject=[GitHub]%20Awesome-UU) or [Jonathan de Bruin](j.debruin1@uu.nl) via mail or open an issue on GitHub.

Inspired by [awesome-python](https://github.com/vinta/awesome-python).
